- [Instructor] Deletions to your CR can be detrimental
to your system as a whole with remote resources.
If you don't properly handle deletion flows,
you could leave resources hanging around
and those can be both a security risk
as well as a financial risk for no reason.
Enter into the picture finalizers.
The first thing that I want to do
is I want to utilize that env.list that we created last time.
So we're going to jump in to our make file
and we're going to go to where it says make run,
which is right here on line 68,
and we're going to make a change to line 70.
What we're going to do is we're going to source our env.list
and go run.
So this way it'll do that sourcing
every time we run this locally
so that we're sure
that we have our environment variables for AWS.
Now once that is done, let's jump into our controller.
And there's a few things that we need to do here
in our controller.
The first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to change this constant
to actually be multiple constants
and the first one that we're going to create
is we're going to create a constant called finalizer.
And this is just a string
but the string should make sense for your system.
So I'm going to use objstores.cninf.lil.frankmole.com
to match my domain.
And then I'm going to call this finalizer.
All right, now that that's done,
let's drop down into our reconcile method
and we are going to get rid of this error statement.
We saw before when we deleted the resource
that we got an error
and that's because every update, even a delete
will trigger the reconcile function to be called.
And what happens is, is once the delete processes,
there is no CR for this to be read,
so it actually will error.
I don't really like this aspect of Cube Builder.
It's just something you have to deal with.
So let's get rid of this error statement
and we'll just rely on it returning a error
where it ignores it if it's not found
and that's the proper way to handle it in this flow.
So now let's drop down below
and we are going to make a code change here
to say if instance.ObjectMetadata.DeletionTimestamp.IsZero.
So what this is saying is if the deletion stamp is zero
and when that happens is anytime there's an update
to the CR or a creation, it will be zero.
Once you do a delete, until that CR is deleted,
it has a deletion timestamp
from when you called cube cuddle delete in the CLI.
So any other time, it's going to be zero
but once it's called out for deletion, it will be a value.
So we'll go ahead and leave our pending state in here.
But now what we're going to do
is we are going to call controllerutill.AddFinalizer
and we pass that the instance and our finalizer string.
And now we are going to do if err := r.Update
and we are not updating the status here.
We're actually updating the CR.
So we will call update by itself
and error does not equal nil.
So as long as that update processed correctly,
we will then rephrase.
Error equals nil.
So as long as the update processes correctly,
we won't get here, but if it does not process correctly,
we will simply return the ctrl.result and pass the error.
Now, after this, we need to put an else block
and this else block is going to be what happens
when delete is called.
And for now, we're just going to put a log message out here,
log.info
and we will simply say that we are in the deletion flow.
All right, so now let's run this.
So we're going to jump into our terminal.
Okay, so the first thing we're going to do
is we're going to do a make install,
just because I want to make sure everything is out there.
We will do a make run.
And because we provided that environment,
we're actually passing those into our running operation.
So we're not going to get an error out of the main method
because we've got those values
for the AWS secret credentials.
So our controller is now running.
Let's pop open a new terminal and we will go to our code.
Obviously, this is where you are running yours from.
Let's go ahead and apply to our name space, our file
and remember, it's in config/samples.
Excellent, so it has been created
and we can do a k get ObjStore -n lil
and you'll see, we've got it there.
It's in a pending state
which is what we would expect it to be in.
So let's go ahead and describe this element now.
And you can see that we have a finalizer defined here,
towards the middle of the screen.
That's what we want to see.
Now here's where it gets interesting.
If I try to delete this,
what's going to happen is is it's going to hang.
I'm actually hanging right now
and the reason I'm hanging
is because there's a finalizer on it
and Kubernetes is saying, wait a minute,
you can't delete it.
The finalizer hasn't been released.
So the only way to get out of this is to control+C
and you'll see if we go and look at it, it's still there
because we can't delete it.
There's no way for that to happen.
So let's stop our process and let's jump back into our IDE.
So let's go ahead and in our deletion flow,
we're going to do a call to controllerutil.RemoveFinalizer.
And once again, we will pass our instance
and then our finalizer string,
and this will remove the finalizer.
So this is only happening in the delete flow.
Now, what you would do is you would do this
when you are done with all of your delete actions
and that will allow Kubernetes to delete the object.
So once again, we need to update this
and check if an error condition happened.
And if so, we will simply return,
and our error,
and now we are ready to run this again.
So let's go back and run this.
So I will run.
Now, what's going to be interesting here,
and this is what I was talking about with the delete value,
so everything is running, you'll see this last log line here
that the deletion flow happened.
And that's because that instance of the CR
had already been marked for deletion
and now we've got code in here that will remove it
because it removes the finalizer.
So let's go back over here to our other terminal window
and prove to you that indeed it's gone.
We can now apply it once again.
It's now been created.
If we look at it, it's in a pending state.
We haven't done anything with it yet.
And now if I delete it, it's gone.
I'm no longer hanging.
So that finalizer prevented you from deleting it
until you were done with it.
Now we're going to go get a little bit more code together
so we can actually do some work.